A Kubernetes cluster is a collection of physical/virtual machines (nodes) that run containerized applications. 
A cluster is made up of 1 parent node that manages the cluster, and multiple worker nodes (pods) that run the actual application instances inside Kubernetes.

A pod represents a single running process that encapsulates a container (or many closely coupled containers). 
Pods can be replicated to scale applications and handle more traffic. From the perspective of a cluster, a set of replicated pods is still one application instance. 

A pod (or replicated pods) is managed by a controller. Controllers handle replication, self-healing, rollout of updates, and general management of pods.
Service objects define a set of rules by which a pod (or set of replicated pods) can be accessed.


Kubernetes Distributions
-----------------------------------------------
https://shipit.dev/posts/minikube-vs-kind-vs-k3s.html
There are many different ways to use Kubernetes, Kubernetes In Docker (KinD), minikube and k3s.

Minikube:
"Minikube is a Kubernetes SIGs project. It takes the approach of spawning a VM that is essentially a single node K8s cluster. 
Due to the support for a bunch of hypervisors it can be used on all of the major operating systems. This also allows you to create multiple instances in parallel."

+ Very user friendly for starters
+ Includes built in dashboard
+ Most common distribution used in online examples and guides
+ Minikube is better recommended for network work - https://www.digihunch.com/2021/09/single-node-kubernetes-cluster-minikube/
- Takes the longest to set up clusters and launch
- Longer install process

KinD:
"Kind is another Kubernetes SIGs project but is quite different compared to minikube. As the name suggests it moves the cluster into Docker containers. This leads to a significantly faster startup speed compared to spawning VM."

+ Faster than minikube
+ Better cli features if you know what you are doing
+ Way easier to install than minikube
- Not that many examples and guides on it 
- No Dashboard limited to command line

K3s:
"K3s is a minified version of Kubernetes"
It occupies less space and potentially runs best as all legacy and redundant stuff has been removed. However it is probs the most complicated one to use.
Requires additional external container set up. Lots of boilerplates files created over your workspace, hard to keep a clean setup.
Not a good idea to use this.


Kubernetes Networking
-------------------------------------------------------
So 1 or multiple containers will run in a pod, all containers running in the same pod can network with each other through localhost. - This currently works in my app
However, if they are in different pods you need those pods to communicate. 
In these cases we expose the application to a service, services will allow us to connect to them from a different pod. - This currently not working, need to find out why

Services can be set up via 3 different methods:
	- NodePort: The service exposes the pod's IP and NodePort, pinging said ip from pod inside cluster should redirect to service's app 
		+ Most basic functionality so should be easiest to setup
		- Pod's ips can randomly change
		- IP is randomly assigned on launch, so how does sender know where receiver is
		- It is not working for some reason but haven't figured out why
	- Load Balancer: Allows to intertwine the cluster with a load balancer to redirect traffic
	- Ingress: An API object that manages external access to the services in a cluster